>> Jen Kramer: So to get started writing
CSS, the first thing we need to do is make
a CSS document,
we need to make a folder for that.
So let's go into the day2 folder.
>> Jen Kramer: And let's go on ahead and
make a new folder right here.
And I'm gonna call it CSS,
because it contains CSS.
>> Jen Kramer: And
then once we have that folder in place,
you'll see it here in VS Code.
And now we can go ahead and
make our CSS file.
So go on ahead and say, File, New File.
>> Jen Kramer: And we'll immediately
go ahead and save this, so, File, Save.
>> Jen Kramer: And
I'm gonna put that in my CSS folder,
and we'll call that style.css.
>> Jen Kramer: So, this is your basic
style sheet, you've made your first one,
and we can put a little comment on the top
here to tell us this is a style sheet.
Commenting in CSS is a little
different than comments in HTML.
So, the comments in CSS looks like this,
it is a / followed by a *,
and you can say, my first css
>> Jen Kramer: And
then you're gonna end it with a */.
So that's just the comment.
Once again, comments, remember,
are little notes to yourself,
they're gonna show up anywhere for
anybody to see,
anywhere on any web page, but, people
can view your CSS online, so be nice.
Cuz they can read those comments.
So, now we have an HTML file,
we have a CSS file, that's great.
Do you think they're
talking to each other?
>> Speaker 2: Not yet.
>> Jen Kramer: Not yet.
We just have two documents,
they're floating around out there
in space, never the two shall meet.
So we need to make sure that
the HTML is talking to our CSS.
So the way we're gonna do that is,
we're gonna go back to our HTML, and
in the head of our document, anywhere in
the head of the document, usually I put
mine right after the title, we're gonna
go ahead and link to our style sheet.
And, shockingly, we're gonna
learn a new tag to do this, and
it's called the link tag, link, all right?
And we'll say, link href= and then quotes,
we're gonna put in the path
to our CSS document.
And VS Code very happily goes ahead and
tries to help us with that.
So it is going to be in the CSS folder,
and it's gonna be style.css.
The other thing that we need to add is
an attribute called rel="stylesheet".
The link tag can be used for
a whole bunch of different things in HTML,
sometimes it's used for a favicon.
Favicon is that little icon that shows
up in the tab of your browser window,
that little picture up there, or
some other things that it's used for,
that we establish what this link tag is
for, that's why we say rel="stylesheet".
And then you can just go ahead and
close that tag.
This is another one of
those self closing tags,
this does not require a slash
link in order to close the tag.
>> Speaker 2: Does it matter
if rel comes before href?
>> Jen Kramer: Nope.
>> Speaker 2: Because I used data
combined, and then it did that.
>> Jen Kramer: It's fine for
rel to come before href, great question.
In fact, in all cases in HTML,
it really doesn't matter what
order your attributes are in,
they can be in any order at all.
But I think you'll generally see
people write their CSS this way.
Usually the href comes first.
I think it's just like the whole
world just kind of agreed on,
and that's the way they do it,
but you don't have to.
So now we have an HTML document,
it's linked to our style sheet,
we're ready to write some CSS.
Make sure you keep up with
saving your documents as you go.
One of the cues that VS Code will
give you that the document isn't
saved is this little circle icon up here,
you'll see that we go
from an X when it's saved to
a circle when it's not saved.
If you ever see the circle,
make sure you save it.
>> Jen Kramer: And you'll have to
toggle over to your other document.
The other thing you can do here that
will make this kind of a little bit
easier to work with is the following.
I'm just gonna close my style.css
tab here, just for a moment.
And, if you hover over style.css
over there in that left bar, and
right-click on Windows,
or Cmd+click on Mac,
you'll notice that we have an option
here called Open to the Side.
Go ahead and try that, and you'll see
that we have now these two documents
side by side, so
you can see both your HTML and your CSS.
And since we're not working with
the files anymore on the left,
just click that top left explorer button,
and that column will go away and
give you a little bit more room.
Always you can turn on the Word Wrap.
So I'm gonna turn on my Word Wrap,
Toggle Word Wrap.
And I'll do the same over here for my CSS.
Now that we've got our whole work space
all set up, we're ready to go on ahead and
write some of our first styles.